Highcharts conversion to Plotly JS (#1822)
ubccr/xdmod: docs/new-charting-library.md

---
title: New Charting Library
---

The charting library used in Open XDMoD has changed in version 11.0 from [Highcharts](https://www.highcharts.com/) to [Plotly JS](https://plotly.com/javascript/), an open source library. This transition removes the non-commercial license required from the Highcharts library. Please refer to the [license notices](notices.md) for more information about the open source licenses bundled with Open XDMoD.

## Chart Feature Changes
Some chart features have been changed, added, and removed in Open XDMoD 11.0.

### Features Changed
The following chart features have changed.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- For line charts, the context menu for a data series is brought up by clicking on its points, not its lines. As before, the context menu can also be brought up by clicking on it in the legend.
```

- Resetting the chart zoom for Metric Explorer charts appears in the chart context menus instead of a button on the chart. Resetting the chart zoom for charts in all other tabs now requires a double click on the plotting area instead of a button on the chart.

### Features Added
The following are new chart features available.

> - The range for charts in the Metric Explorer can be reset to default through the axis context menu.
> - Charts can zoom by both 'x' and 'y' axis.
> - Chart axes are draggable to adjust chart range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Chart axes are draggable to adjust the chart range. For charts in the Metric Explorer, the axis range can be reset to the default through the axis context menu. For other charts, the chart can be reset to the default by double-clicking.
```

### Features Removed
The following chart features are no longer available but are planned to be added back.

> - Change layering for multiple axis charts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The ability to change the layering order for charts with multiple axes.
```

> - Change layering for multiple axis charts.

Reviewer: It looks like the `Layer` option is still available in the context menu.

- Hover animations.

> - Shadow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Shadow.
```

## Know Issues

> The following are known issues in Open XDMoD 11.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
The title of this section is self-explanatory.
